My plan is simple for Valve.


Valve needs to do the exact thing they have never done before.


Communicate.


How, exactly?


Why, thru Steam of course!  But how do you make things viable for users to want to interact?



3 words.

1:  Hardware
2:  Software
3:  Mods



With the release of The Steam Deck, Valve has a lot of potential to add to their Steam Client by way of Social Media.  While this proposal isn't Definite and is absolutely subject to change,
the main thing to keep in mind is that if you have invested in a Steam Deck, you have put a lot of money straight into Valve.  At minimum, 600 dollars, if you bought it from them at the lowest spec.
Upon opening your Steam Deck, and logging into Steam for the first time, you would be greeted with a few simple things that the hardware, by nature allows you to do.



1:  Game Development


The Steam Deck, and upcoming V2, are very capable machines.  To the point that you can run development suites for games, drop your Deck into a Dock, and now2 you have a ryzen based computer with a 
competent enough GPU that you can do modeling, mapping, code, and all the heavy lifting to create a game for users to buy, play, and mod themselves.

This Github is an excellent example as to how that would work, as well as Valve's own Office Format, which Github Projects, and in turn, Foss projects, live by.



2:  Mod Development


You would be gravely mistaken if you thought Steam didn't have Mods.  But unfortunately, while the workshop was REALLY COOL in 2015, I don't want to look at a clone of a Neopets Auction House for
forever.  This needs a drastic update.

When Developers, including Valve, release Mod Compatible games, there needs to be a better interface for modders to interact with.  Github, for example, shows a history of changes, who is involved, and 
when, as well as most any other classification of data a user could need in order to know what they need to do to get their mod to work that they just spent 4 weekends on inbetween school exams.
There needs to be a proper forum, a proper submission system, and even a way for mods to be FORKED, not STOLEN.

If files are uploaded, they need to be watermarked somehow with an end user's account information, so that no matter what, that user is credited in any future work forked off of their own.

As well, The Steam Deck could have a modding section!  Steam Itself!  The Skins that no one knows about could ACTUALLY GO SOMEWHERE!  End-User made repair guides!  The list goes on, and many of you can
guess whats on it, we'll get to that in a moment.



3:  Testing


As Steam has encouraged the Release Now, Ask Questions Later format to the world, everyone is plagued with horribad software.  The biggest issue is, most bug reports are either completely decentralized,
a pain in the ass to access, or straight up you send an Email to Pablo and pray to god you get a reply.

Sometimes Pablo is busy.  Sometimes Pablo is asleep, taking a shower, any number of things, and straight up, maybe Pablo is being paid by the company at hand to straight up ignore all intake requests.

In this case, Steam should have a place for Users to properly Create, Submit, and Interact with Bug Reports.  And not just some BS either, I mean select game, select category, skip all of them and
go to custom anyways, write down whatever crazy experience you just had, and it gets submitted for whatever Moderator to handle.  While a Moderator looks at your submission, people can up or down-
vote things to rank importance, leave a comment about a permutation or how to cause the bug, and data can be sorted all in one spot.

The users need a way to communicate issues to the Developers of their games, as well as Valve when a problem comes up.



4:  Stream


Because as soon as you turn it on, install OBS, hook it to your youtube or whatever, you're literally off to the races immediately.  In todays day and age, thats literally priceless
for any and all content creators.  Add to it the potential to hoox up Valve's VR headset and have a mobile virtual workspace / office, you have a totally new market to work with.

This just opens doors. On top of actually making the Steam Broadcast Network Useful.



5:  MSN / Twitter


Lastly, the Social Media itself.

Currently Steam, its tools, and everything connected to it, is not much more than a clone of multiple early 2000's things we all remember fodly.


Steam Chat -- MSN
Profiles / Community Forums -- Newgrounds
The Store -- Personally?  iTunes Store for Apps on your iPod Touch


We have long since 2006 come up with better ways to communicate.

As a first rough draft, I think the easiest solve to this would be something like Matrix or Mastodon.  A FOSS network that can be easily modified and integrated by Valve, that allows Users and Devs
Alike to communicate quickly with one another.  If a Dev has a problem at a company, there needs to be a place to say something about things happening at that company that cannot be touched by that
company.

This includes Valve by the way.

If users want to create a Poll, they should be able to.  If users want a trending hashtag, they can do that.  Honestly, I'm not social media addicted like most people, so suggestions for how
this would work are open.  For the moment though, I think Mastodon is a good Beta / alpha candidate.


How Does Valve Fund This?


For one, its Valve.  How do they fund anything?

For two, I think the best way to fund this would be to take a percentage of steam deck sales, and use the money from those sales to directly invest into Steam and its Future, rather than throwing
it at literally who knows what.




Pros
Guaranteed Hardware Sales
Can Gatekeep for 2 or 3 years to force hardware sales or whatever, and those sales can be used to fund the thing
Guaranteed uptick in user interaction

Bonus, modding scene gets a huge increase in visibility

Cons
Valve is held responsible as the worlds Central Games Repository for PC gaming.



BETA TESTING IDEA

Using the github itself, we can literally use the page to come up with a better all in one format.

Edits / suggestions are submittable.
